---
layout: post
title: iOS 10 Beta 2 
cover: ios10.jpg
---

<!-- raise to wake
* push to unlock (w/ option to hover to unlock)
* way more useful 3d touch 
* messages API 
* major siri upgrade
* photos are way smarter and build albums with the full capabilities of google
  photos but none of the privacy concerns
* unlock Mac
* maps remembers when you leave your car
* Home App 
-->

Today Apple released the second iteration of their public 
[beta](https://beta.apple.com/sp/betaprogram/) for 
[iOS 10](http://www.apple.com/ios/ios10-preview/).
In case you weren't aware, the current stable version of [iOS](http://www.apple.com/ca/ios/ios10-preview/) is iOS 9. Ten is scheduled for release late in early autumn.

Early rception is mixed. It has been suggested that iOS 10 represents a failure to
innovate and if you think innovation boils down to just look and feel
then you may agree. Indeed if you compare the visual components of iOS 9
and 10 at a glance it would seem that little has changed. Yet, upon
closer inspection you might notice that nothing is the same. 

My summary is that iOS 10 brings a lot of new functionality to iPhones
and this alone isn't necessarily a good thing. However it seems that
although now a lot more can be achieved with iOS10, everything requires
less  effort on the user's part.
Moreover, a lot of features that were already present on iOS
are just a heck of a lot easier to use now.

In this post I want to hilight just two features: raise to wake and 
iMessage developer support. 

The coolest iOS 10 feature i've noticed is also the most subtle. It's easy to 
overlook, it's nothing special and yet when I point it out to other beta
testers they're blown away. Apple calls it raise to wake. Whenever I reach for 
my iPhone to look at it, it wakes up and shows me the lock screen. 
The closest thing already on the market that come anywhere near this in
convenience 
those magnetic case covers that can detect when the screen is visible. But this
is completely different, if I grab my iPhone from the nighstand  or
pull it out of my pocket, the screen comes to life. When I put the phone away,
it goes back to sleep. It's elegantly simple and the way things should be.
And I have to note Apple's attention to detail here, the screen doesn't just
abruptly turn off, it smoothly fades to black.

The next noticeable innovation has much broader impacts than "raise to wake".
With iOS 10 Apple will be rolling out new 
[iMessage access for devs](https://developer.apple.com/imessage/). Developers
will now have the option of integrating with iMessage and presenting custom
interfaces for their apps from directly within a Messages convo. Hence users
can access apps without needing to leave Messages. This is intended to allow
users to conveniently share content, edit photos, play games, send payments and
collaborate in brand new ways. Since smartphones are fundamentally communication
devices, this should significantly change how users communicate and share content.

Here is simple way to visualize the potential impact of support for iMessage 
Apps: what would you send via text message if you knew you could? Money? Game 
invitations? Movie Tickets? The possibilities are endless.


There certainly were other feature releases and in fact "raise to wake" wasn't even part
of beta II but these are the two items that left the greatest impression o me .


Also, I should probably write something on 
[SiriKit](https://developer.apple.com/sirikit/) soon.


<style>
    #cover-photo {
        width: 100%;t
    }
</style>
